# HTTP Server

We can expose unstorage instance to an http server to allow remote connections.

Request url is mapped to key and method/body mapped to function. See below for supported http methods.

## Storage Server

Programmatic usage of creating an HTTP server exposing methods to communicate with the `storage` instance:

```js [server.js]
import { listen } from "listhen";
import { createStorage } from "unstorage";
import { createStorageServer } from "unstorage/server";

const storage = createStorage();
const storageServer = createStorageServer(storage);

// Alternatively we can use `storageServer.handle` as a middleware
await listen(storageServer.handle);
```

The `storageServer` is an [h3](https://github.com/unjs/h3) instance. Checkout also [listhen](https://github.com/unjs/listhen) for an elegant HTTP listener.

::alert{type="primary"}
**🛡️ Security Note:** The server is unprotected by default. You need to add your own authentication/security middleware like basic authentication.
Also consider that even with authentication, `unstorage` should not be exposed to untrusted users since it has no protection for abuse (DDOS, Filesystem escalation, etc)
::

## Storage Client

You can use the [http driver](/drivers/http) to easily connect to the server.

```ts
import { createStorage } from "unstorage";
import httpDriver from "unstorage/drivers/http";

const client = createStorage({
  driver: httpDriver({
    base: "SERVER_ENDPOINT",
  }),
});
const keys = await client.getKeys();
```

## HTTP Methods

- `GET`: Maps to `storage.getItem` or `storage.getKeys` when path ending with `/` or `/:`
- `HEAD`: Maps to `storage.hasItem`. Returns 404 if not found.
- `PUT`: Maps to `storage.setItem`. Value is read from body and returns `OK` if operation succeeded.
- `DELETE`: Maps to `storage.removeItem` or `storage.clear` when path ending with `/` or `/:`. Returns `OK` if operation succeeded.

::alert{type="info"}
When passing `accept: application/octet-stream` for GET and SET operations, the server switches to binary mode via `getItemRaw` and `setItemRaw`.
::
