# S3

This driver allows data storage to Amazon S3 compatible providers. The data can be KV for document storage or Binary for file storage. It implements a direct HTTP client for a lightweight bundle size and compatibility with edge environments such as Cloudflare Workers and Netlify Edge Functions.

#### Setup

To start please make sure to create a Bucket and an access key with permissions for Object Read & Write. This key will be used for the following object-level operations [HeadObject](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_HeadObject.html), [ListObjectsV2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_ListObjectsV2.html), [GetObject](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_GetObject.html), [PutObject](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_PutObject.html), [DeleteObject](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_DeleteObject.html), [DeleteObjects](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_DeleteObjects.html).

Then please make sure to set the driver's options.

```ts
import { createStorage } from "unstorage";
import s3Driver from "unstorage/drivers/s3";

const storage = createStorage({
  driver: s3Driver({
    accessKeyId: "", // The client id or access key id
    secretAccessKey: "", // The client secret or access key secret
    accountId: "", // The account ID (optional)
    bucket: "", // The bucket name
    endpoint: "", // The bucket endpoint
    region: "", // The bucket region
  }),
});
```

#### Usage

This driver supports the following methods

- `getItem`/`getItemRaw` To retreive KV or Binary data respectively. Note that the internal response headers can be retreived from `headers` option.
- `setItem`/`setItemRaw` To upload KV or Binary data respectively. Note that the internal request headers can be extended by `headers` option. On `setItemRaw` it's recommended to set `Content-Length` and `Content-Type` headers as they may not be automatically resolved by the provider.
- `removeItem` To delete a single Object.
- `clear` To delete multiple Objects. Note that if `accountId` config option is provided then **DeleteObjects** operation is performed. Otherwise multiple **DeleteObject** operations are performed. This is because **DeleteObjects** operation may not be supported by the provider.
- `getMeta` To retreive the user-defined metadata. Note that `setMeta` is not supported because metadata can only be set on upload (`setItem`/`setItemRaw`) via `meta` option.
- `getKeys` Gets the keys of objects in a specific folder.
- `hasItem` Checks if Object exists.
